[docs] Add Using PostHog guide (#46937)
expo/expo: docs/pages/guides/using-posthog.mdx

---
title: Using PostHog
description: A guide on installing and configuring PostHog for product analytics, session replay, and error tracking.
platforms: ['android', 'ios']
---

import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { Prerequisites, Requirement } from '~/ui/components/Prerequisites';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';

[PostHog](https://posthog.com/) is a product analytics platform with session replay, feature flags, and error tracking.

> The EAS CLI integration automates the standard PostHog React Native setup — installing the SDK, creating a PostHog organization and project, and configuring your environment variables. You can also [set it up manually](#manual-setup) and use the rest of this guide unchanged.

Reviewer: **[suggestion]** The style guide prefers separate sentences, or a colon or a connector such as "then", over em dashes when breaking up a thought (`style-guide.md#punctuation`). This file uses em dashes 12 times: lines 14, 49, 50, 51, 53, 97, 125, 129, 133, 173, 185, and 197. Several join two independent clauses that read cleanly as two sentences (for example line 97: "...require a development build. They don't work in Expo Go."). On this line a colon introduces the list:

```suggestion
The EAS CLI integration automates the standard PostHog React Native setup: installing the SDK, creating a PostHog organization and project, and configuring your environment variables. You can also [set it up manually](#manual-setup) and use the rest of this guide unchanged.
```

Author: swept all 12 — colons / separate sentences / connectors depending on the spot. none left now 🙏

  - [EAS Update](#usage-with-eas-update) for over-the-air updates
- [Release tagging](#release-tagging), [feature flags](#feature-flags), and [troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

## Install and configure PostHog

<Step label="1">

### Run the connect command

Run the following command in your project directory:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas integrations:posthog:connect']} />

This command:

- Prompts for a PostHog **region** (US or EU). The region sets your data residency and can't be changed after connecting.
- Creates a PostHog organization and project for you, or reuses the existing one if you've already connected. (New PostHog accounts only — see [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting).)
- Asks which features to set up — a multiselect of **Analytics**, **Session replay**, and **Error tracking**, all enabled by default.
- If you enable **error tracking**, prompts you to paste a PostHog **personal API key** — create one in PostHog under **Settings → Personal API keys** with the "Source map upload" preset. (Non-interactively, pass it with `--posthog-cli-api-key`.)
- Installs the PostHog SDK and required Expo modules (plus the session-replay package if you keep that feature).

> - Adds the `posthog-react-native/expo` config plugin to your app config — it wires up the native modules the SDK, session replay, and error symbolication rely on. It edits a static **app.json** for you; with a dynamic **app.config.js** it can't edit the file, so it prints the plugin entry for you to add.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Adds the `posthog-react-native/expo` config plugin to your app config by wiring up the native modules, PostHog's SDK, session replay, and error symbolication. It edits a static [app config](/workflow/configuration/) file for you. It cannot edit the [dynamic app config](/workflow/configuration/#dynamic-configuration), so it prints the plugin entry which you can copy and add.
```

Author: took your `app config` / `dynamic config` links. kept the "wires up the native modules … rely on" phrasing since the plugin sets up the native modules the SDK/replay/symbolication depend on (rather than those things directly) — happy to reword if you have a different take

> - Writes `EXPO_PUBLIC_POSTHOG_API_KEY` and `EXPO_PUBLIC_POSTHOG_HOST` to **.env.local** and to your EAS environment variables across Production, Preview, and Development. With error tracking enabled it also stores the personal API key as `POSTHOG_CLI_API_KEY` (with [sensitive visibility](/eas/environment-variables/#visibility-settings-for-environment-variables)) plus the public `POSTHOG_CLI_PROJECT_ID` and `POSTHOG_CLI_HOST`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Writes `EXPO_PUBLIC_POSTHOG_API_KEY` and `EXPO_PUBLIC_POSTHOG_HOST` to **.env.local** and to your EAS environment variables across Production, Preview, and Development environments. With error tracking enabled it also stores the personal API key as `POSTHOG_CLI_API_KEY` (with [sensitive visibility](/eas/environment-variables/#visibility-settings-for-environment-variables)) and the public `POSTHOG_CLI_PROJECT_ID` and `POSTHOG_CLI_HOST`.
```

Author: applied ✅

</Collapsible>

</Step>

<Step label="2">

### Wrap your app in `<PostHogProvider>`

In your root layout file (**src/app/\_layout.tsx** with Expo Router), wrap your app in `<PostHogProvider>`, reading the keys from the environment variables the command wrote. See the [PostHog React Native docs](https://posthog.com/docs/libraries/react-native) for all options, including [error-tracking autocapture](https://posthog.com/docs/error-tracking/installation/react-native).

```tsx src/app/_layout.tsx
import { PostHogProvider } from 'posthog-react-native';
import { Slot } from 'expo-router';

export default function RootLayout() {
  return (
    <PostHogProvider
      apiKey={process.env.EXPO_PUBLIC_POSTHOG_API_KEY}
      options={{
        host: process.env.EXPO_PUBLIC_POSTHOG_HOST,
        enableSessionReplay: true, // set to true only if you set up session replay
        disabled: __DEV__, // gate out development traffic
      }}>
      <Slot />
    </PostHogProvider>
  );
}
```

</Step>

<Step label="3">

### Create a development build

> Session replay and native error symbolication require a [development build](/develop/development-builds/introduction/) — they don't work in Expo Go. Product analytics works in Expo Go.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Session replay and native error symbolication require a [development build](/develop/development-builds/introduction/) since they don't work in Expo Go. Product analytics works in Expo Go.
```

I think the commands are not exactly clear below. If someone is using a CNG project and use EAS to create a development build, they do not need to run the `prebuild` command themselves? If that's the case, we should be explicit about when to run which command.

Author: you're right — for a CNG project EAS Build runs prebuild itself, so calling it out separately was misleading. dropped the manual prebuild step, now just eas build --profile development. also switched the em dash to "since".

> <Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo prebuild', '$ eas build --profile development']} />

Reviewer: **[nit]** Separate the two commands with a blank row so `prebuild` and `build` read as distinct steps. Empty strings render as blank rows in `Terminal` (`components.md#terminal`).

```suggestion
<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo prebuild', '', '$ eas build --profile development']} />
```

Author: ended up dropping the manual prebuild here entirely (per your CNG comment below), so it's just eas build --profile development now — no two-command row needed.

</Step>

<Step label="4">

### Verify the configuration

Add a temporary button to capture a test event, run your development build, and tap it:

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```tsx
import { Button } from 'react-native';
import { usePostHog } from 'posthog-react-native';

// Inside a component
const posthog = usePostHog();
<Button title="Send test event" onPress={() => posthog?.capture('test_event')} />
```

Open your PostHog project (at `https://us.posthog.com` or `https://eu.posthog.com`, depending on your region) and confirm the event arrives.

</Step>

## Manual setup

> `connect` is a shortcut for the standard PostHog React Native setup. To do it by hand, follow [PostHog's React Native installation guide](https://posthog.com/docs/libraries/react-native), then set `EXPO_PUBLIC_POSTHOG_API_KEY` and `EXPO_PUBLIC_POSTHOG_HOST` (plus the `POSTHOG_CLI_*` variables for source maps — see [PostHog's source maps guide](https://posthog.com/docs/error-tracking/upload-source-maps/react-native)). Wrap your app in `<PostHogProvider>` as shown in [Step 2](#install-and-configure-posthog).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`connect` is a shortcut for the standard PostHog React Native setup. To do it manually, follow [PostHog's React Native installation guide](https://posthog.com/docs/libraries/react-native), then set `EXPO_PUBLIC_POSTHOG_API_KEY` and `EXPO_PUBLIC_POSTHOG_HOST` (plus the `POSTHOG_CLI_*` variables for source maps. Wrap your app in `<PostHogProvider>` as shown in [Step 2](#install-and-configure-posthog).

For more information, see [PostHog's source maps guide](https://posthog.com/docs/error-tracking/upload-source-maps/react-native)).
```

Author: applied — nudged it slightly so the parens balance and the source-maps link sits in its own sentence. thanks!

## Usage with EAS Build

The `posthog-react-native/expo` config plugin, together with the `POSTHOG_CLI_*` environment variables, handles source-map upload during `eas build` — there's no extra command to run. For configuration details and options, see [PostHog's source maps guide](https://posthog.com/docs/error-tracking/upload-source-maps/react-native). If your build needs to adjust iOS script sandboxing for source-map upload, the plugin's options are documented there as well.

## Usage with EAS Update

Over-the-air bundles aren't part of `eas build`, so you upload their source maps separately after each `eas update`. Follow [PostHog's React Native source maps guide](https://posthog.com/docs/error-tracking/upload-source-maps/react-native) — PostHog's CLI reads the `POSTHOG_CLI_*` environment variables that `connect` configured.

> For EAS Workflows and other CI, those variables are already set in your EAS environment variables. For external CI, add them with `eas secret:create` and reference them in your workflow.

Reviewer: **[suggestion]** `eas secret:create` does not appear anywhere in the Expo docs (0 occurrences in `pages/`), while the canonical command for adding EAS environment variables is `eas env:create` (used throughout `pages/eas/environment-variables/manage.mdx`, for example "Use `eas env:create` to add variables"). `secret:create` is the legacy secrets API: if it has been removed from EAS CLI this instruction breaks, and even if it is still aliased it is inconsistent with the rest of the docs and with the `/eas/environment-variables/` page this guide already links to. Sensitive values map to `eas env:create ... --visibility sensitive`.

```suggestion
For external CI, add them with `eas env:create` and reference them in your workflow.
```

Author: Applied, thank you, followed the code for the function I used, and didn't realize `secret` command was deprecated.

## Release tagging

> Map each captured event back to a specific over-the-air update by registering super properties from [`expo-updates`](/versions/latest/sdk/updates/):

Reviewer: What is a super property here? Is this something PostHog uses? If yes, we should link to their definition.

Author: it's a PostHog concept — linked the term to their definition, thanks for raising that!

```tsx
import { useEffect } from 'react';
import * as Updates from 'expo-updates';
import { usePostHog } from 'posthog-react-native';

function ReleaseTagger() {
  const posthog = usePostHog();

  useEffect(() => {
    posthog?.register({
      expo_update_id: Updates.updateId,
      expo_channel: Updates.channel,
      expo_runtime_version: Updates.runtimeVersion,
    });
  }, [posthog]);

  return null;
}
```

Render `<ReleaseTagger />` inside `<PostHogProvider>`. Every subsequent `capture()` carries these properties, so you can filter or group events by `expo_update_id` in PostHog. See [PostHog's super properties docs](https://posthog.com/docs/libraries/react-native#super-properties).

## Feature flags

> Once the provider is set up, feature flags work with no extra configuration. See [PostHog's feature flags for React Native](https://posthog.com/docs/feature-flags/installation/react-native), and [bootstrapping](https://posthog.com/docs/feature-flags/bootstrapping) to avoid a network round-trip on app start.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the provider is set up, feature flags work with no extra configuration. See [PostHog's feature flags for React Native](https://posthog.com/docs/feature-flags/installation/react-native) and [bootstrapping](https://posthog.com/docs/feature-flags/bootstrapping) to avoid a network round-trip on app start.
```

Author: done ✅ Thanks!

## Manage the integration

Use these commands to manage the integration later:

> <Terminal cmd={['$ eas integrations:posthog:dashboard', '$ eas integrations:posthog:disconnect']} />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Terminal cmd={['$ eas integrations:posthog:dashboard', '', '$ eas integrations:posthog:disconnect']} />
```

`dashboard` opens your linked PostHog project. `disconnect` removes the Expo-side link only — your PostHog organization, project, and data are left intact.

## Troubleshooting

<Collapsible summary="No events arriving">

Confirm `disabled: __DEV__` isn't masking events in your production build, and that `EXPO_PUBLIC_POSTHOG_API_KEY` is set in the environment profile your build uses.

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary="Session replay isn't working">

> Session replay requires a development build — it doesn't work in Expo Go. Create one with `npx expo prebuild` and `eas build --profile development`.

Reviewer: Same thing here. Needs more context when to use EAS Build vs prebuild. Something like the following might help us provide more clarity:

```md
Session replay requires a development build since it doesn't work with Expo Go. If your Expo project uses [Continuous Native Generation (CNG)](/workflow/continuous-native-generation/), you can create one with `npx expo run:android|ios` locally or with EAS, using `eas build --profile development` command.
```

The prebuild will only generate native directories, however, running `npx expo run:*` commands will create a development build.

Author: updated with the CNG link + expo run:android|ios vs eas build — borrowed your wording, reads much clearer.

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary="Source maps aren't symbolicating">

Confirm the `POSTHOG_CLI_*` environment variables are set (connect adds them when error tracking is enabled). For over-the-air updates, make sure you uploaded source maps after `eas update`, following [PostHog's source maps guide](https://posthog.com/docs/error-tracking/upload-source-maps/react-native).

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary="'You already have a PostHog account'">

> The integration connects new PostHog accounts. If your email already has a PostHog account, set it up using the [manual steps](#manual-setup) instead — create a project in PostHog and configure the SDK, config plugin, and environment variables yourself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The integration connects new PostHog accounts. If your email already has a PostHog account, set it up using the [manual steps](#manual-setup) instead.
```

Since this already links to manual setup, the link should be enough here.

Author: trimmed to just the manual-steps link 👍

## Troubleshooting

<Collapsible summary="No events arriving">

Confirm `EXPO_PUBLIC_POSTHOG_API_KEY` is set in the environment profile your build uses. Note that `disabled: __DEV__` stops events from development builds, so test in a preview or production build (or remove it temporarily). If a dev server was already running when `connect` wrote your environment variables, do a full reload (not Fast Refresh) so the app picks up the new `EXPO_PUBLIC_*` values.

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary="Session replay isn't working">

Session replay requires a development build since it doesn't work with Expo Go. If your project uses [Continuous Native Generation](/workflow/continuous-native-generation/), create one with `npx expo run:android` or `npx expo run:ios` locally, or with `eas build --profile development`.

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary="Source maps aren't symbolicating">

> Confirm your **metro.config.js** is wrapped with `getPostHogExpoConfig` (see [Source maps](#source-maps)) and that the `POSTHOG_CLI_*` environment variables are set (connect adds them when error tracking is enabled). For over-the-air updates, make sure you ran `posthog-cli hermes upload --directory dist` after `eas update`.

Reviewer: **[nit]** `connect` is a command and appears as inline code everywhere else in this page's prose (for example, lines 54, 148, 186, and 252). Wrap this occurrence to match (`style-guide.md#formatting-and-structure`).

```suggestion
Confirm your **metro.config.js** is wrapped with `getPostHogExpoConfig` (see [Source maps](#source-maps)) and that the `POSTHOG_CLI_*` environment variables are set (`connect` adds them when error tracking is enabled). For over-the-air updates, make sure you ran `posthog-cli hermes upload --directory dist` after `eas update`.
```

Author: Updated, thank you! 👍
